[WIP] Further updates to property definitions (#460)
Materials-Consortia/OPTIMADE: optimade.rst

    - :field:`relation`: String.
      A human-readable description of the relationship between the property and the remote resource, e.g., a "natural language description".

    - :field:`resource-id`: String.

>       A IRI of the external resource, which MAY be a resolvable URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      An IRI of the external resource, which MAY be a resolvable URL.
```

**REQUIRED keys for all levels of the Property Definition:**

.. _definition of the x-optimade-type field:

- :field:`x-optimade-type`: String.
  Specifies the OPTIMADE data type for this level of the defined property.
  MUST be one of :val:`"string"`, :val:`"integer"`, :val:`"float"`, :val:`"boolean"`, :val:`"timestamp"`, :val:`"list"`, or :val:`"dictionary"`.

- :field:`x-optimade-unit`: String.
  A (compound) symbol for the physical unit in which the value of the defined property is given or one of the strings :val:`dimensionless` or :val:`inapplicable`.
  See subsection `Physical Units in Property Definitions`_ for the details on how compound units are represented in OPTIMADE Property Definitions and the precise format of this string.

> **OPTIONAL keys at all nested levels of the Property Definition which are regarded as annotations to the Property Definition**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**OPTIONAL keys at all nested levels of the Property Definition which are regarded as annotations to the Property Definition:**
```

- :field:`x-optimade-implementation`: Dictionary.
  A dictionary describing the level of OPTIMADE API functionality provided by the present implementation.
  If an implementation omits this field in its response, a client interacting with that implementation SHOULD NOT make any assumptions about the availability of these features.

>   This field, along with a few others, should be seen as annotations rather then integral parts of the Property Definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This field, along with a few others, should be seen as annotations rather than integral parts of the Property Definition.
```

Reviewer 2: Also, I would probably rephrase the sentence to omit the `along with a few others` part and only focus on this definition. Since we do not explicitly list or reference those other definitions, it is probably of little use to the reader. The same comment applies to a few other newly added sentences with a similar structure.

>   Two Property Definitions that only differ by the value of :field:`x-optimade-implementation` are considered the same, and as explained in relation to the :field:`$id` field below, they SHOULD share the same :field:`$id`.

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to reference/link a specific part of the text that defines the "`as explained in relation to the :field:$id field below`"? I tried searching for the "below" part, but could not easily locate it with a cursory glance.

Author: Ok, I've added internal hyperlinks for this, and also to reference the definition of `x-optimade-type` from `type`.

    - :val:`partial`: the defined property MUST be queryable with support for a subset of the filter language operators as specified by the field :field:`query-support-operators`.
    - :val:`none`: the defined property does not need to be queryable with any features of the filter language.

    Omitting the field or :val:`null` is equivalent to :val:`none`.

  - :field:`query-support-operators`: List of Strings.
    Defines the filter language features supported on this property.
    MUST be present and not :val:`null` if and only if :field:`query-support` is :val:`partial`.

>     Each string in the list MUST be one of :val:`<`, :val:`<=`, :val:`>`, :val:`>=`, :val:`=`, :val:`!=`, :val:`CONTAINS`, :val:`STARTS WITH`, :val:`ENDS WITH`:, :val:`HAS`, :val:`HAS ALL`, :val:`HAS ANY`, :val:`HAS ONLY`, :val:`IS KNOWN`, :val:`IS UNKNOWN` with the following meanings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Each string in the list MUST be one of :val:`<`, :val:`<=`, :val:`>`, :val:`>=`, :val:`=`, :val:`!=`, :val:`CONTAINS`, :val:`STARTS WITH`, :val:`ENDS WITH`, :val:`HAS`, :val:`HAS ALL`, :val:`HAS ANY`, :val:`HAS ONLY`, :val:`IS KNOWN`, :val:`IS UNKNOWN` with the following meanings:
```

    - :val:`IS KNOWN`, :val:`IS UNKNOWN`: indicating support for filtering this property on unknown values using the respective operator.

>   - :field:`response-default`: boolean

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - :field:`response-default`: Boolean
```

>     The value :val:`TRUE` means the implementation includes the property in responses by default, i.e., when not specifically requested.

Reviewer 2: It seems that other Boolean definitions also explicitly define the semantics of the "FALSE" value.

Author: ```suggestion
    The value :val:`TRUE` means the implementation includes the property in responses by default, i.e., when not specifically requested.
    The value :val:`FALSE` means that the property is only included when requested.
```

>     Omitting the field or :val:`null` means the implementation does not declare if the property will be included in responses by default or not.

Reviewer 2: Could/should it default to FALSE instead under these conditions? Or does it clash with backwards compatibility?

Author: My thinking was that it could not mean either TRUE or FALSE, because that would mean that leaving this *optional* field out would make you standards-violating if you do the opposite. Meaning, it wouldn't really be optional to declare this, you'd have to do it in cases where the default is wrong.

Reviewer 2: I see. But the false-if-not-defined approach is already used with other *optional* boolean fields such as `sortable`. The default could also be wrong in those cases, albeit with slightly lesser side-effects.  Or is this case semantically different?

Author: I think it is different, in that it just means that this declaration should only be read as the provider not *promising* you can sort on the property. It isn't meant to be standards violating to still allow a sort in that case. Here, however, FALSE means it isn't included by default, so if you do, you break that contract.

I suppose we could reformulate the definition of this boolean instead, to say that FALSE means either. But it is actually useful to know if a field definitively is not going to be included in the response.

Reviewer 2: Ok, so the real problem is that a reasonable default does not exist. However, the inclusion of the third "unknown" state quite limits the usability of the fields: even if one can say that certain properties will definitely be or not be there, the ones with unspecified `response-default` would still need to be manually excluded/include just to be safe one is getting the desired result.

Of course, this depends on the use case in mind. My initial impression was that this field should allow to formulate a complete expectation on what fields will be returned in the 
response by default. However, I understand that the intended purpose might be different. The use case that I described would probably require to declare the option as mandatory rather than option (something that we probably do not want to do?).

As for the FALSE value, I think that the current strict definition should be retained as it conveys more information.

Author: > However, the inclusion of the third "unknown" state quite limits the usability of the field: even if one can say that certain properties will definitely be or not be there, the ones with unspecified response-default would still need to be manually excluded/include just to be safe one is getting the desired result.

I think the assumption here is that a reasonable provider provides this for all the usual fields that you care about, and it is missing only on fields you are likely not to care about. In that case, it is useful. 

The typical use case for "I don't want to say" is when testing things. Lets say you are in the process of adding new information to the database, you've made a "stub" property definition to cover it, but not yet decided it should go in the default responses or not. This seems a reasonable use case for "null".

Reviewer 2: Understood. I would probably use a different approach of not serving "stub" definitions by default and then moving on to serving them once ready, but I do understand that different people use different practices. So unless you see any benefits of declaring this field as mandatory, I consider the discussion resolved.

- :field:`x-optimade-requirements`: Dictionary.
  A dictionary describing the level of OPTIMADE API functionality required by all implementations of this property.
  Omitting this field means the corresponding functionality is OPTIONAL.
  The dictionary has the same format as :field:`x-optimade-implementation`, except that:

  - :field:`response-default` SHOULD NOT appear.

>   and the following additional OPTIONAL fields are allowed:

Reviewer 2: A bit of unconventional syntax here since we follow `appear.` with a lowercase `and`. Not sure how to rephrase it, though.

>   The dictionary has the same format as :field:`x-optimade-implementation`, except that:
> 
>   - :field:`response-default` SHOULD NOT appear.
> 
>   and the following additional OPTIONAL fields are allowed:

Author: ```suggestion
  The dictionary has the same format as :field:`x-optimade-implementation`, *except that* the :field:`response-default` SHOULD NOT appear, and the following additional OPTIONAL fields are allowed:
```

    - :val:`IS KNOWN`, :val:`IS UNKNOWN`: indicating support for filtering this property on unknown values using the respective operator.

>   - :field:`response-default`: Boolean

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - :field:`response-default`: Boolean.
```

    Note: the specification by this field of whether the defined property can be :val:`null` or not MUST match the value of the :field:`type` field.
    If :val:`null` values are allowed, that field must be a list where the string :val:`"null"` is the second element.

  - :field:`response-default-level`: String

>     Expresses if an implementation of this property is required or not to include or exclude it in responses when not specifically requested.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Expresses if an implementation of this property is required to include or exclude it in responses when not specifically requested.
```

**REQUIRED keys**

- :field:`type`: List.
  Specifies the corresponding JSON type for this level of the defined property and whether the property can be :val:`null` or not.
  The value is directly correlated with :field:`x-optimade-type` (cf. the `definition of the x-optimade-type field`_).

  It MUST be a list of one or two elements where the first element is a string correlated with :field:`x-optimade-type` as follows; if :field:`x-optimade-type` is:

    * :val:`"boolean"`, `"string"`, or `"integer"` then :field:`type` is the same string.
    * :val:`"dictionary"` then :field:`type` is `"object"`.
    * :val:`"list"` then :field:`type` is `"array"`.
    * :val:`"float"` then :field:`type` is `"number"`.
    * :val:`"timestamp"` then :field:`type` is `"string"`.

  If the second element is included, it MUST be the string :val:`"null"`.

>   This two element form specifies that the defined property can be :val:`null`.

Author: As much as I dislike the null here (and it is indeed *very much*) it seems OpenAPI 3.1 released in 2021 also has moved over to the "null" type specification: https://www.openapis.org/blog/2021/02/16/migrating-from-openapi-3-0-to-3-1-0

Seems odd for us to adopt a way of indicating a nullable field that now is deprecated in OpenAPI?

>   This two element form specifies that the defined property can be :val:`null`.

Author: Oh, it is actually even worse:

*"In order to achieve the goal of letting JSON Schema tools understand OpenAPI, it was decided to remove nullable entirely instead of deprecate it."* 

We wouldn't even be compatible with OpenAPI 3.1 then, if we went with a nullable field. They also make a good point that they don't like `nullable` because it removes a constraint rather than adding one. I guess the best design would have been a `non-nullable` field.

>   This two element form specifies that the defined property can be :val:`null`.

Reviewer: Haha wow, thanks for checking that. I guess the current OpenAPI schemas need to be updated once this change gets down to pydantic too :sweat_smile:

**REQUIRED keys**

- :field:`type`: List.
  Specifies the corresponding JSON type for this level of the defined property and whether the property can be :val:`null` or not.
  The value is directly correlated with :field:`x-optimade-type` as explained below.

>   It MUST be a one or two element list where the first element is a string correlated with :field:`x-optimade-type` as follows; if :field:`x-optimade-type` is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  It MUST be a list of one or two elements where the first element is a string correlated with :field:`x-optimade-type` as follows; if :field:`x-optimade-type` is:
```

**REQUIRED keys**

.. _definition of the type field:

- :field:`type`: List.
  Specifies the corresponding JSON type for this level of the defined property and whether the property can be :val:`null` or not.
  The value is directly correlated with :field:`x-optimade-type` (cf. the `definition of the x-optimade-type field`_).

  It MUST be a list of one or two elements where the first element is a string correlated with :field:`x-optimade-type` as follows; if :field:`x-optimade-type` is:

>     * :val:`"boolean"`, `"string"`, or `"integer"` then :field:`type` is the same string.
>     * :val:`"dictionary"` then :field:`type` is `"object"`.
>     * :val:`"list"` then :field:`type` is `"array"`.
>     * :val:`"float"` then :field:`type` is `"number"`.
>     * :val:`"timestamp"` then :field:`type` is `"string"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :val:`"boolean"`, `"string"`, or `"integer"` then :field:`type` is the same string.
* :val:`"dictionary"` then :field:`type` is `"object"`.
* :val:`"list"` then :field:`type` is `"array"`.
* :val:`"float"` then :field:`type` is `"number"`.
* :val:`"timestamp"` then :field:`type` is `"string"`.
```

Think this is the right indent level, on the rich diff these are currently appearing as inline quotes which I guess is not desirable

Reviewer: (Same with the implementation notes bulletpoints below, but I can't make suggestions for those in this PR)

Author: The implementation notes are actually meant to be set as [block quotes](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#block-quotes) throughout the specification. I mean, I'm happy for any other suggestions - but we've been doing it semi-consistently to separate those segments from the specification text.

**REQUIRED keys**

.. _definition of the type field:

- :field:`type`: List.
  Specifies the corresponding JSON type for this level of the defined property and whether the property can be :val:`null` or not.
  The value is directly correlated with :field:`x-optimade-type` (cf. the `definition of the x-optimade-type field`_).

  It MUST be a list of one or two elements where the first element is a string correlated with :field:`x-optimade-type` as follows; if :field:`x-optimade-type` is:

>   * :val:`"boolean"`, `"string"`, or `"integer"` then :field:`type` is the same string.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * :val:`"boolean"`, :val:`"string"`, or :val:`"integer"` then :field:`type` is the same string.
```
This should give a more consistent formatting of the types.
perhaps the "object" and "array" should also be preceded by ":val:"

  The format SHOULD be a one-line description, followed by a new paragraph (two newlines), followed by a more detailed description of all the requirements and conventions of the defined property.
  Formatting in the text SHOULD use Markdown in the `CommonMark v0.3 format <https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/>`__.

- :field:`$comment`: String.
  A human-readable comment relevant in the context of the raw definition data.
  These comments should be omitted in formatted descriptions of the property shown to the end users.
  (Comments in descriptions relevant to the end users should go into :field:`description`.)
  Formatting in the text SHOULD use Markdown in the `CommonMark v0.3 format <https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/>`__.

>   This field should be seen as an annotation rather then an integral part of the Property Definition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  This field should be seen as an annotation rather than an integral part of the Property Definition.
```

- :field:`title`: String.
  A short single-line human-readable explanation of the defined property appropriate to show as part of a user interface.

.. _definition of the description field:

- :field:`description`: String.
  A human-readable multi-line description that explains the purpose, requirements, and conventions of the defined property.
  The format SHOULD be a one-line description, followed by a new paragraph (two newlines), followed by a more detailed description of all the requirements and conventions of the defined property.
  Formatting in the text SHOULD use Markdown in the `CommonMark v0.3 format <https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/>`__ format, with mathematical expressions written to render correctly with the LaTeX mode of `Mathjax 3.2 <https://docs.mathjax.org/en/v3.2-latest/>`.

>   When possible, it is preferable for mathematical expressions to use an as straightforward notation as possible to make them readable also when not rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When possible, it is preferable for mathematical expressions to use as straightforward notation as possible to make them readable also when not rendered.
```

This reads a bit strangely to me with "an" though it is it not necessarily incorrect, so feel free to ignore this suggestion if you disagree

  It SHOULD NOT be changed as long as the property definition remains the same, and SHOULD be changed when the property definition changes.
  Property Definitions SHOULD be regarded as the same if they only differ by:

  - The inclusion or omission of :val:`"null"` in the :field:`type` in the outermost layer of the definition.
  - Additions of annotating notes to end of the :field:`description` field.
  - Changes to the following specific fields at any level: :field:`deprecated`, :field:`examples`, :field:`$comment`, :field:`x-optimade-implementation`, and :field:`x-optimade-requirements`.

- :field:`title`: String.
  A short single-line human-readable explanation of the defined property appropriate to show as part of a user interface.

.. _definition of the description field:

- :field:`description`: String.
  A human-readable multi-line description that explains the purpose, requirements, and conventions of the defined property.
  The format SHOULD be a one-line description, followed by a new paragraph (two newlines), followed by a more detailed description of all the requirements and conventions of the defined property.

>   Formatting in the text SHOULD use Markdown in the `CommonMark v0.3 format <https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/>`__ format, with mathematical expressions written to render correctly with the LaTeX mode of `Mathjax 3.2 <https://docs.mathjax.org/en/v3.2-latest/>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Formatting in the text SHOULD use Markdown in the `CommonMark v0.3 format <https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/>`__ format, with mathematical expressions written to render correctly with the LaTeX mode of `Mathjax 3.2 <https://docs.mathjax.org/en/v3.2-latest/>`__.
```

  The format SHOULD be a one-line description, followed by a new paragraph (two newlines), followed by a more detailed description of all the requirements and conventions of the defined property.
  Formatting in the text SHOULD use Markdown in the `CommonMark v0.3 format <https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/>`__.

- :filed:`$comment`: String.
  A human-readable comment relevant in the context of the raw definition data.

>   These comments should be omitted in formatted descriptions of the property shown to end users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  These comments should be omitted in formatted descriptions of the property shown to the end users.
```

>   (Comments relevant in descriptions for end users should go into :field:`description`.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  (Comments in descriptions relevant to the end users should go into :field:`description`.)
```

  Formatting in the text SHOULD use Markdown in the `CommonMark v0.3 format <https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/>`__.

>   This field, along with a few others, should be seen as annotations rather then integral parts of the Property Definition.

Author: ```suggestion
  This field should be seen as an annotation rather then an integral part of the Property Definition.
```

**OPTIONAL keys at all nested levels of the Property Definition:**

- :field:`x-optimade-unit-definitions`: List.
  A list of definitions of the symbols used in the Property Definition (including its nested levels) for physical units given as values of the :field:`x-optimade-unit` field.
  This field **MUST be included at the outermost level of a property definition** if the defined property, at any level, includes an :field:`x-optimade-unit` with a value that is not :val:`dimensionless` or :val:`inapplicable`, and it MUST include definitions of all units used on all levels in the property definition.
  The field MAY also occur at deeper nesting levels (but this is not required).
  If it does, the unit definitions provided MUST be redundant with those provided at higher nesting levels.

>   See subsection `Physical Units in Property Definitions`_ for the details on how units are represented in OPTIMADE Property Definitions and the precise format of this dictionary.

Author: Perhaps we should make x-optimade-unit-definitions always REQUIRED in the outermost level (so, possibly an empty list). The specification just gets bulky from the OPTIONAL - oh but often REQUIRED - categorization. However, setting this to REQUIRED requires updating the property definitions in #445.

The physical unit of a property, the embedded items of a list, or values of a dictionary, are defined with the field :field:`x-optimade-unit` with the following requirements:

- The field MUST be given with a non-:val:`null` value both at the highest level in the OPTIMADE Property Definition and all inner Property Definitions.

> - If the property refers to a physical quantity that is dimension and unitless (often also referred to as having the dimension 1) or refers to a dimension and unitless count of something (e.g., the number of protons in a nucleus) the field MUST have the value :val:`dimensionless`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If the property refers to a physical quantity that is dimensionless and unitless (often also referred to as having the dimension 1) or refers to a dimensionless and unitless count of something (e.g., the number of protons in a nucleus) the field MUST have the value :val:`dimensionless`.
```

>   However, quantities that uses counting units, e.g., the mole, or quantities that use dimensionless units, e.g., the radian MUST NOT set the field to :val:`dimensionless`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  However, quantities that use counting units, e.g., the mole, or quantities that use dimensionless units, e.g., the radian MUST NOT set the field to :val:`dimensionless`.
```

  - :field:`uri`: String.
    A URI of the external resource (which MAY be a resolvable URL).

- :field:`deprecated`: Boolean.
  If :val:`TRUE`, implementations SHOULD not use the unit defined in this Physical Unit Definition.
  If :val:`FALSE`, the unit defined in this Physical Unit Definition is not deprecated.
  The field not being present means :val:`FALSE`.

  This field should be seen as an annotation rather than an integral part of the Physical Unit Definition.
  Two Physical Unit Definitions that only differ by :field:`deprecated` fields are considered the same.

- :field:`$comment`: String.
  A human-readable comment relevant in the context of the raw definition data.
  These comments should be omitted in formatted descriptions of the Physical Unit definition shown to the end users.

>   (Comments in descriptions relevant to the end users should go into :field:`description`.)

Reviewer 2: The unit definition dictionary does not seem to define a `description` field?

Author: It is there? Maybe you just don't see it because you are just looking at the diff? If you fold out downwards from line 2210 you should see it?

Reviewer 2: Sorry, my bad, totally missed that.

  Formatting in the text SHOULD use Markdown using the format described in the `definition of the description field`_ of Property Definitions.

  This field should be seen as an annotation rather than an integral part of the Physical Unit Definition.
  Two Physical Unit Definitions that only differ by the value of any :field:`$comment` fields are considered the same.

> - :field:`defining-relation`: Dictionary.

Author: I've realized a possible need for further caution here. Many (most?) units are defined by relations to SI units today. However, there are some that are not.

The only good example I found after a quick look around is the atomic mass unit (u; dalton). It only has an approximate relation to kg (1 u ~= 1.66053906660(50)×10^-27 kg). We actually have to define this unit in OPTIMADE, since we use it for masses in species.

I'm thinking the mass unit should not be expressed with a defining relation (and maybe we should clarify in the text that `defining-relation` is NOT for that.) But then perhaps it would be nice to have some other way of expressing the best known non-defining relation to SI units?

>   A dictionary that encodes a defining relation to another unit or set of units, with the primary intended use of relating a unit being defined to SI units, if possible.
>   The dictionary MUST adhere to the following format:

Author: ```suggestion
  A dictionary that encodes a defining relation to another unit or set of units, with the primary intended use of relating a unit to its definition in SI units, if such a relationship exists.
  Some units, e.g., the atomic mass unit (also known as dalton, commonly denoted ``u``), only has an approximate relationship to SI units, in which case the :field:`defining-relation` MUST be omitted or :val:`null`.
  The dictionary MUST adhere to the following format:
```

  **REQUIRED keys:**

  - :field:`base-units`: List of Dictionaries.
    A list specifying the base URIs and unit symbols for the units in which the dimensional formula for the defining relation is expressed.
    Each item MUST be a dictionary that adheres to the following format:

    **REQUIRED keys:**

    - :field:`symbol`: String.
      The symbol used to reference this unit in the dimensional formula.
    - :field:`uri`: String.
      The URI of one of the units referenced in the dimensional formula for the defining relation.

  - :field:`base-units-expression`: String.
    A string expressing the base units part of the defining relation for the unit being defined.
    It MUST adhere to the format for compound unit expression described in `Physical Units in Property Definitions`_.

>   - :field:`scale`: Dictionary. Optional.

Reviewer 2: A bit of a contradiction -- this seems to fall under the **Required keys**, but is also marked as Optional.

Author: Right, this is not the syntax we use. Should be fixed now.

    A dictionary specifying the scale in the defining relation, adhering to the following format:

    **OPTIONAL keys:**

    - :field:`numerator`: Integer.
    - :field:`denominator`: Integer.
    - :field:`exponent`: Integer.

>     These three fields specify the value as the rational number :field:`numerator` / :field:`denominator`, multiplied by 10 to the power of :field:`exponent`. If omitted or :val:`null`, the defaults for the :field:`numerator`, :field:`denominator`, and :field:`exponent` are respectively 1, 1, and 0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    These three fields specify the value as the rational number :field:`numerator` / :field:`denominator`, multiplied by 10 to the power of :field:`exponent`.
    If omitted or :val:`null`, the defaults for the :field:`numerator`, :field:`denominator`, and :field:`exponent` are respectively 1, 1, and 0.
```

>   - :field:`offset`: Dictionary. Optional.

Reviewer 2: A bit of a contradiction -- this seems to fall under the **Required keys**, but is also marked as Optional.

    A dictionary specifying the offset value, adhering to the same format as :field:`scale`.
    If omitted or :val:`null`, the defaults for the :field:`numerator`, :field:`denominator`, and :field:`exponent` are respectively 0, 1, and 0.

>   If the fields in :field:`scale` are designated as `sn`, `sd`, and `se`; and the fields in :field:`offset` are designated as ``on``, ``od``, and ``oe``; and :field:`base-units-expression` is designated as ``b``, these fields state the following defining relation: a value ``v`` multiplied by the unit being defined is equal to the following expression ``(v * (se/sd) * 10**se + (oe/od) * 10**oe)*u``, where ``*`` designates multiplication and ``**`` designates exponentiation.

Reviewer 2: What does `u` stand for in the expression?

Also, `b` is defined, but not actually used in the expression?

Author: ```suggestion
  If the fields in :field:`scale` are designated as `sn`, `sd`, and `se`; and the fields in :field:`offset` are designated as ``on``, ``od``, and ``oe``; and :field:`base-units-expression` is designated as ``b``, these fields state the following defining relation: a value ``v`` multiplied by the unit being defined is equal to the following expression ``(v * (se/sd) * 10**se + (oe/od) * 10**oe)*b``, where ``*`` designates multiplication and ``**`` designates exponentiation.
```

>   For example, the defining relation of the temperature unit Fahrenheit ``F`` in Celsius ``C``, that says that ``1 F = (1 - 32) * (5/9) C`` could be expressed as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
  For example, the defining relation of the temperature unit Fahrenheit ``F`` in Celsius ``C``, that says that ``x F = (x - 32) * (5/9) C`` could be expressed as follows:
```

>   For example, the defining relation of the temperature unit Fahrenheit ``F`` in Celsius ``C``, that says that ``x F = (x - 32) * (5/9) C`` could be expressed as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For example, the defining relation of the temperature unit Fahrenheit ``F`` in Celsius ``C``, that says that ``x F = (x - 32) * (5/9) C = 5/9 x + (-160/9) C`` could be expressed as follows:
```

Author: I mean... I though this really was an obvious exercise for the reader... but ok.

  .. code:: jsonc

    "defining-relation": {
      "base-units": [
        {
          "symbol": "C",
          "uri": "https://units.example.com/celsius"
        }
      ],
      "base-units-expression": "C",
      "scale": {
        "numerator": 5,
        "denominator": 9
      },
      "offset": {

>         "numerator": 160,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "numerator": -160,
```

Reviewer 2: I guess a minus sign is needed either here or in the denominator.

        "denominator": 9
      }
    }

> 

Reviewer 2: Would it be possible to get another, a slightly more complex example that involves several units?

Author: Ok, perhaps we can add an example of a whole Physical Unit Definition and do multiple units there.

Author: Done.

  - :field:`base-units-expression`: String.
    A string expressing the base units part of the defining relation for the unit being defined.
    It MUST adhere to the format for compound unit expression described in `Physical Units in Property Definitions`_.

  - :field:`scale`: Dictionary. Optional.
    A dictionary specifying the scale in the defining relation, adhering to the following format:

    **OPTIONAL keys:**

    - :field:`numerator`: Integer.
    - :field:`denominator`: Integer.
    - :field:`exponent`: Integer.

    These three fields specify the value as the rational number :field:`numerator` / :field:`denominator`, multiplied by 10 to the power of :field:`exponent`.
    If omitted or :val:`null`, the defaults for the :field:`numerator`, :field:`denominator`, and :field:`exponent` are respectively 1, 1, and 0.

  - :field:`offset`: Dictionary. Optional.
    A dictionary specifying the offset value, adhering to the same format as :field:`scale`.
    If omitted or :val:`null`, the defaults for the :field:`numerator`, :field:`denominator`, and :field:`exponent` are respectively 0, 1, and 0.

>   If the fields in :field:`scale` are designated as `sn`, `sd`, and `se`; and the fields in :field:`offset` are designated as ``on``, ``od``, and ``oe``; and :field:`base-units-expression` is designated as ``b``, these fields state the following defining relation: a value ``v`` multiplied by the unit being defined is equal to the following expression ``(v * (se/sd) * 10**se + (oe/od) * 10**oe)*b``, where ``*`` designates multiplication and ``**`` designates exponentiation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If the fields in :field:`scale` are designated as `sn`, `sd`, and `se`; and the fields in :field:`offset` are designated as ``on``, ``od``, and ``oe``; and :field:`base-units-expression` is designated as ``b``, these fields state the following defining relation: a value ``v`` multiplied by the unit being defined is equal to the following expression ``(v * (sn/sd) * 10**se + (on/od) * 10**oe)*b``, where ``*`` designates multiplication and ``**`` designates exponentiation.
```

Author: Oh, wow, how did I get this so screwed up. Thanks for actually digging through the details here!

  - :field:`relation`: String.
    A human-readable description of the relationship between the unit and the remote resource, e.g., a "natural language description".

  - :field:`resource-id`: String.

>     A IRI of the external resource (which MAY be a resolvable URL).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    An IRI of the external resource (which MAY be a resolvable URL).
```

  - :field:`relation`: String.
    A human-readable description of the relationship between the unit and the remote resource, e.g., a "natural language description".

  - :field:`resource-id`: String.
    An IRI of the external resource (which MAY be a resolvable URL).

.. _definition of defining-relation:

- :field:`defining-relation`: Dictionary.
  A dictionary that encodes a defining relation to another unit or set of units, with the primary intended use of relating a unit to its definition in SI units, if such a relationship exists.
  Some units, e.g., the atomic mass unit (also known as dalton, commonly denoted ``u``), only has an approximate relationship to SI units, in which case the :field:`defining-relation` MUST be omitted or :val:`null`.
  The dictionary MUST adhere to the following format:

  **OPTIONAL keys:**

  - :field:`base-units`: List of Dictionaries.
    A list specifying the base IRIs and unit symbols for the units in which the dimensional formula for the defining relation is expressed.
    Each item MUST be a dictionary that adheres to the following format:

    **REQUIRED keys:**

    - :field:`symbol`: String.

>       The symbol used to reference this unit in the dimensional formula.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The symbol used to reference this unit in the dimensional formula.

```

    - :field:`id`: String.
      The IRI of one of the units referenced in the dimensional formula for the defining relation.

  - :field:`base-units-expression`: String.
    A string expressing the base units part of the defining relation for the unit being defined.
    It MUST adhere to the format for compound unit expression described in `Physical Units in Property Definitions`_.

>     if the field is missing or :val:`null` the base-units-expression is taken to be equal to 1, i.e., the defining relation is dimensionless.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If the field is missing or :val:`null` the base-units-expression is taken to be equal to 1, i.e., the defining relation is dimensionless.
```

    - :val:`"time"`: the full-time production in :RFC:`3339` section 5.6.
    - :val:`"duration"`: the duration production in :RFC:`3339` Appendix A.
    - :val:`"email"`: the "Mailbox" ABNF rule in :RFC:`5321` section 4.1.2.
    - :val:`"uri"`: a string instance is valid against this attribute if it is a valid URI according to :RFC:`3986`.
    - :val:`"iri"`: a string instance is valid against this attribute if it is a valid IRI according to :RFC:`3987`.

> 

Reviewer: I think the pattern field would squeeze in here (this is the only place GitHub will let me make the suggestion, so could also be reordered above `format`:

```suggestion
  - :field:`pattern`: String.
    A non-negative integer.
    This string SHOULD be a valid regular expression, according to the ECMA-262 regular expression dialect.
    A string instance is considered valid if the regular expression matches the instance successfully. Recall: regular expressions are not implicitly anchored.
```

Author: I added this now, because I am about to merge this whole PR into #445 since they depend on each other. However, I think we need to update the description of pattern to point at whatever OPTIMADE regex subset we allow.

    #BEGIN ERE strings
    "([^\"]|\\.)*"
    #END ERE strings

Property Definition Example
---------------------------

This appendix provides a more complete example of a Property Definition on the format defined in `Property Definitions`_.

> (Note: the description strings have been wrapped for readability only)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(Note: the description strings have been wrapped for readability only.)
```

.. code:: jsonc

  {
    "title": "Forces and atomic masses list",
    "$id": "https://properties.example.com/v1.2.0/forces_and_masses",
    "x-optimade-type": "list",
    "x-optimade-property": {
      "version": "1.2.0",
      "property-format": "1.2",
      "unit-definitions": [
        {
          "title": "Newton",
          "symbol": "N",
          "$id": "https://units.example.com/v1.2.0/N",

>           "description": "The Newton SI unit of force, defined as 1 kg m/s^2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          "description": "The newton SI unit of force, defined as 1 kg m/s^2
```

                          equal to $10^{-10}$ meter using the 2019

>                           redefinition of the SI base units.",

Reviewer 2: Is this correct here? Seems like a leftover definition of angstrom.

Author: ```suggestion
                          using the 2019 redefinition of the SI base units.",
```

Author: Good catch - copy-paste error when I grabbed the string about the SI redefinition.

          "standard": {
            "name": "gnu units",
            "version": "3.15",
            "symbol": "newton"
          },
          "defining-relation": {
            "base-units": [
              {
                "symbol": "kg",
                "uri": "https://units.example.com/v1.2.0/kg"
              },
              {
                "symbol": "m",
                "uri": "https://units.example.com/v1.2.0/m"
              },
              {
                "symbol": "s",
                "uri": "https://units.example.com/v1.2.0/s"
              }
            ],
            "base-units-expression": "kg*m*s^-2"
          }
        },
        {
          "title": "Dalton mass unit",
          "symbol": "u",
          "$id": "https://units.example.com/v1.2.0/u",

>           "description": "The Dalton mass unit defined as 1/12 of the mass of an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          "description": "The dalton mass unit defined as 1/12 of the mass of an
```

    #BEGIN ERE strings
    "([^\"]|\\.)*"
    #END ERE strings

Property Definition Example
---------------------------

> This appendix provides a more complete example of a Property Definition on the format defined in `Property Definitions`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This appendix provides a more complete example of a Property Definition in the format defined in `Property Definitions`_.
```
